Term Entry - PyTorch - nn - nn.Dropout() (#5706)
Codecademy/docs: content/pytorch/concepts/nn/terms/dropout/dropout.md

---

> Title: 'nn.dropout()'
> Description: 'Applies dropout regularization to neural network layers during training.'
> Subjects:
>   - 'Machine Learning'
>   - 'Python'
> Tags:
>   - 'Deep Learning'
>   - 'Machine Learning'
>   - 'Neural Networks'
>   - 'PyTorch'
> CatalogContent:
>   - 'learn-python-3'
>   - 'paths/machine-learning'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'nn.dropout()'
Description: 'Returns a tensor with the same shape as the input, where some elements are randomly set to zero based on the dropout probability to prevent overfitting.'
Subjects:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Machine Learning'
Tags:
  - 'Deep Learning'
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Neural Networks'
  - 'PyTorch'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/machine-learning'
```

---

**`torch.nn.Dropout`** is a regularization technique in [PyTorch](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/pytorch) used to prevent overfitting during [neural network](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/pytorch/nn) training. It works by randomly setting a fraction of input units to zero during each forward pass, reducing the model's reliance on specific neurons and encouraging it to generalize better.

Dropout is only applied during training and is automatically disabled during evaluation.

## Syntax

The syntax for applying dropout in PyTorch is:

```pseudo

> torch.nn.Dropout(p=0.5)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
torch.nn.Dropout(p=0.5, inplace=False)
```

```

- `p`: The probability of dropping of a unit (default is `0.5`, meaning 50% dropout).
  - A higher value increases regularization but may reduce model capacity.

> - Returns a module that applies dropout to the input [tensor](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/pytorch/tensors).

Reviewer: Can you please add the `inplace` parameter description as well, and put the return statement outside the bullet points?

## Example

Here's an example of using `nn.Dropout` in a neural network:

```py
import torch
import torch.nn as nn

# Define a tensor.
inputs = torch.randn(3, 5)

# Apply dropout with 50% probability.
dropout = nn.Dropout(p=0.5)

# Forward pass.
outputs = dropout(inputs)

print("Input Tensor:")
print(inputs)
print("\nOutput Tensor with Dropout Applied:")
print(outputs)
```

Example Output:

```shell
Input Tensor:
tensor([[ 0.3369, -1.0319,  1.3535, -0.4457, -0.2493],
        [ 0.3731,  1.0746, -0.5612, -1.2638, -0.0648],
        [ 0.9374, -0.2997, -1.1414,  0.4212,  0.7359]])

Output Tensor with Dropout Applied:
tensor([[ 0.6738, -0.0000,  2.7070, -0.8914, -0.4986],
        [ 0.7462,  2.1492, -0.0000, -2.5275, -0.1297],
        [ 0.0000, -0.5994, -2.2827,  0.8423,  1.4718]])

> ```

Reviewer: At the end, a note can be added as follows:

> **Note**: The output will change each time because dropout randomly sets a fraction of the input values to zero during each forward pass, introducing variability in the results.
